---
layout: blog
title: 'Pixar''s First Movie: Toy Story'
lang: en
date: '2020-03-12T19:29:17-04:00'
thumbnail: /images/uploads/1-woody-concept-art-bud-luckey.jpg
terms: >-
  concept art, pixar, toy story, animation, concept art, 3d animation, disney,
  renderman
---
Pixar has come a long way since its start way back before it's release of its first feature length movie in 1995. One thing that hasn't changed one bit is their attention to detail, focus on art direction, and their continuous push for technological advancement. The image above is the initial concept art for Woody by one of Pixar’s original concept artists, Bud Lucky, who sadly passed away in 2018.



Pixar has had a continuous focus on their attention to detail from their characters all the way down to the little objects in the environments. This all being achieved with their 3D rendering software, Renderman, which they have licensed out to other Disney studios including the team that worked on Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. This software is also free to use for anyone who wants to try it. 



With Pixar being the first animation studio to release a fully 3d animated movie, they have set the standard for high budget animation art direction. Every single one of their movies has thousands upon thousands of concept artwork that gave way to the vision and look of each movie. Over the years, different styles and artists have been explored and have resulted in over 20 unique movies. Initially alot of the artwork was done in coloured pencil, but moved to digital once the digital art industry caught up.



With every Pixar film, the studio pushes to have a new piece of animation technology included within their film. Toy Story might not look as impressive compared to things that have been released today, however it contained the longest animation at the time with a large team behind it. In future posts, I will go over what sort of things they have advanced in up till now.
